Inclusion Criteria:

          -  Type 2 diabetes

          -  Overweight

          -  BMI of 25 kg/m2 or greater

          -  If on insulin, BMI of 27 kg/m2 or greater

          -  Blood pressure less than 160/100 mmHg

          -  HbA1c less or equal to 11%

          -  Triglycerides less than 600 mg/dl

          -  Willingness to participate

        Exclusion Criteria:

          -  Unable or unwilling to give informed consent or communicate with local study staff.

          -  Current diagnosis of schizophrenia, other psychotic disorders, or bipolar disorder.

          -  Hospitalization for depression in past six months.

          -  Self-report of alcohol or substance abuse within the past twelve months.

          -  Current consumption of more than 14 alcoholic drinks per week.

          -  Current acute treatment or rehabilitation program for these problems.

          -  Plans to relocate to an area not served by Look AHEAD or travel plans that do not
             permit full participation in the study.

          -  Lack of support from primary care health provider or family members.

          -  Failure to complete the two-week run-in for dietary intake and exercise.

          -  Weight loss exceeding 10 lbs. in past three months.

          -  Current use of medications for weight loss.

          -  Self reported inability to walk two blocks.

          -  History of bariatric surgery, small bowel resection, or extensive bowel resection.

          -  Chronic treatment with systemic corticosteroids.

          -  Another member of the household is a participant or staff member in Look AHEAD.

          -  Currently pregnant or nursing.

          -  Cancer requiring treatment in the past five years, except for non-melanoma skin
             cancers or cancers that have clearly been cured.

          -  HIV positive (self-report), due to effects on weight and body composition of HIV and
             medications used to treat HIV.

          -  Active tuberculosis (self-report).

          -  Cardiovascular disease (heart attack or procedure within the past three months).

          -  Participation in a cardiac rehabilitation program within last three months.

          -  Stroke or history/treatment for transient ischemic attacks in the past three months.

          -  Pulmonary embolus in past six months.

          -  Unstable angina pectoris or angina pectoris at rest.

          -  A history of cardiac arrest.

          -  Complex ventricular arrhythmia at rest or with exercise (e.g., ventricular
             tachycardia).

          -  Uncontrolled atrial fibrillation (heart rate of 100 beats per minute or more).

          -  NYHA Class III or IV congestive heart failure.

          -  Acute myocarditis, pericarditis or hypertrophic myocardiopathy.

          -  Clinically significant aortic stenosis.

          -  Left bundle branch block or cardiac pacemaker unless evaluated and cleared for
             participation by a cardiologist.

          -  Cardiac defibrillator.

          -  Heart transplant.

          -  History of aortic aneurysm of at least 7 cm in diameter or aortic aneurysm repair.

          -  Resting heart rate less than 45 beats per minute or greater than 100 beats per minute.

          -  Any abnormality during the maximum exercise stress test that indicates that it would
             be unsafe to participate in the Lifestyle Intervention.

          -  Angina pectoris.

          -  Significant ST segment depression at low levels of exercise.

          -  Exercise induced ventricular arrhythmias.

          -  Abnormal hemodynamics, such as flat or decreasing systolic blood pressure with
             increasing workload.

          -  Those at moderate to high risk for cardiac complications during exercise.

          -  Those who are unable to self-regulate activity or understand the recommended activity
             level.

          -  Renal disease or dialysis.

          -  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that would limit ability to follow the protocol.

          -  Self-reported chronic hepatitis B or C or cirrhosis.

          -  Inflammatory bowel disease requiring treatment in past year.

          -  Cushing's syndrome.

          -  Acromegaly.

          -  Amputation of lower limbs as result of non-traumatic causes.

          -  Any major organ transplant.
